<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@ngx-primer/accordion](./accordion.md) &gt; [NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.md)

## NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent class

`NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent` is the root component of the accordion, providing the context and structure for the accordion's item and trigger components. It acts as the container for all accordion-related interactions and configurations.

This component integrates with the `NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent` and `NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent` to create a fully functioning accordion UI. It manages the overall state, layout, and provides accessibility features for the accordion elements.

The component also leverages directives like `NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective` to generate unique IDs for each accordion root instance and `NgxPrimerAccordionRootContextDirective` to provide a shared context across child components.

\#\#\# Selector - `ngx-primer-accordion-root`<!-- -->: This is the HTML tag used to declare the accordion root component in templates.

\#\#\# Providers - `NgxPrimerAccordionRootContext`<!-- -->: The context provider for the accordion, which is injected into child components.

\#\#\# Host Directives - `NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective`<!-- -->: Responsible for generating unique IDs for the accordion root component. - `NgxPrimerAccordionRootContextDirective`<!-- -->: Provides context for child components like items and triggers within the accordion, ensuring that they can communicate and share state seamlessly.

\#\#\# Template and Styling - The `accordion-root.component.html` file contains the structure of accoridon root whic use content projection `ng-content` to give user flexibility to create theor accordion with our Primitives Api. - The `accordion-root.component.scss` file defines the styling for the accordion root, including visual presentation and responsive design adjustments.

\#\#\# Usage The `NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent` is typically used as a wrapper for the entire accordion UI, with each item and trigger being a child of this root component.

  ngx-primer-accordion-root  \[CommonModule\] Imports Angular's `CommonModule` to provide essential Angular features.  \[NgxPrimerAccordionRootContext\] Provides context to child components.  \[ { directive: NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective, inputs: \['ngxPrimerIdAttr'\] }<!-- -->, { directive: NgxPrimerAccordionRootContextDirective } \]  './accordion-root.component.html'  './accordion-root.component.scss'  'ngxPrimerAccordionRootComponent'

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent<T> implements OnInit 
```
**Implements:** OnInit

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[accordionConfig](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.accordionconfig.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("../../configs/accordion-config").NgxPrimerAccordionConfig


</td><td>

Provides the configuration for the accordion component by injecting the `AccordionConfig` service.

The `accordionConfig` property allows access to customizable settings and configurations for the accordion, such as default behaviors, styles, or other shared properties. These configurations can be tailored globally or overridden at specific component levels.

\#\#\# Purpose - Centralizes the configuration for the accordion component. - Promotes consistency and reusability across multiple accordion instances. - Allows for easy updates and modifications to default settings.


 {<!-- -->NgxPrimerAccordionConfig<!-- -->}


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[accordionItems](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.accordionitems.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

readonly [NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionitemcomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt;\[\]


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[accordionItemsContext](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.accordionitemscontext.md)


</td><td>

`protected`

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@angular/core").Signal&lt;readonly [NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionitemcomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt;\[\]&gt;


</td><td>

The list of accordion item instances that belong to this accordion root.

This property is a `QueryList` that holds all the accordion items (i.e., `NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent`<!-- -->) within the current accordion component. The `QueryList` is updated automatically to reflect any changes in the content of the accordion (e.g., if new items are added or removed).

\#\#\# Type - \*\*QueryList<NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent>\*\*: A list of accordion items that are part of the current accordion root component.

\#\#\# Behavior: - The `accordionItems` list includes all `NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent` instances that are within the root accordion, including descendants. - The list is updated dynamically whenever the accordion content changes (e.g., items are added or removed).


 {<!-- -->QueryList<NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent>} The accordion items within this component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[accordionRootId](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.accordionrootid.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

The `accordionRootId` is a read-only property that holds the unique ID for the root element of the accordion. It leverages the `uniqueId` getter to retrieve a dynamically generated ID from the `idGenerator` or falls back to a default ID if the generator is not available.

This ID is useful for setting attributes or accessing the accordion component via its unique identifier.


 {<!-- -->string<!-- -->}


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[collapsible](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.collapsible.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@angular/core").ModelSignal&lt;boolean&gt;


</td><td>

The collapsible property for the accordion. Determines whether the accordion can collapse or not.


 {<!-- -->boolean<!-- -->} True if the accordion is collapsible, false otherwise.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataDisabledAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.datadisabledattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

"" \| null


</td><td>

Gets the value of the `data-disabled` attribute for the accordion element.

This property is bound to the result of the `disabled()` method, which determines whether the accordion is disabled or not. If the accordion is disabled, the `data-disabled` attribute will be added with an empty string value; otherwise, it will be removed (i.e., set to `null`<!-- -->).

This is useful for styling or DOM-related behaviors that depend on whether the accordion is disabled or not. It allows external tools or styles to target the accordion element based on its disabled state.

 


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataOrientationAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.dataorientationattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("../../configs/accordion-config").NgxPrimerAccordionOrientation \| "Vertical" \| "Horizontal"


</td><td>

Gets the value of the `data-orientation` attribute for the accordion element. This property is bound to the `orientation` property from the accordion configuration, allowing the accordion's orientation to be dynamically set as an attribute on the DOM element.

The value of `data-orientation` will reflect the current orientation defined in the accordion configuration, such as `Vertical` or `Horizontal`<!-- -->.

 


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataTypeAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.datatypeattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("../../configs/accordion-config").NgxPrimerAccordionType \| "Single" \| "Multiple"


</td><td>

Gets the value of the `data-type` attribute for the accordion element.

This property is bound to the result of the `type()` method, which determines the type of the accordion (e.g., `Single` or `Multiple`<!-- -->). The `data-type` attribute is dynamically set on the DOM element, reflecting the current accordion type.

This is useful for targeting the accordion element in styles or for other DOM-related behaviors based on its type, allowing different types of accordions to be easily identified and styled differently if needed.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[defaultValue](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.defaultvalue.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@angular/core").ModelSignal&lt;T \| T\[\] \| null&gt;


</td><td>

The default value for the accordion. This is the initial value to be set if no other value is provided.


 {<!-- -->T \| T\[\] \| null<!-- -->} The default selected value(s).


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[disabled](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.disabled.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@angular/core").ModelSignal&lt;boolean&gt;


</td><td>

Whether the accordion is disabled or not. If true, the accordion and its items cannot be interacted with.


 {<!-- -->boolean<!-- -->} True if the accordion is disabled, false otherwise.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[idGenerator](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.idgenerator.md)


</td><td>

`protected`

`readonly`


</td><td>

NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective \| null


</td><td>

The `idGenerator` is a protected property used to inject an instance of `NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective` through Angular's dependency injection system.

This generator is used to provide unique ID values for elements within the component or directive. The property is injected with `host: true` and `optional: true`<!-- -->, meaning it will be fetched from the host element (if available), but the property will be `null` if the directive is not found.

 

 {<!-- -->NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective \| null<!-- -->}


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[orientation](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.orientation.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@angular/core").ModelSignal&lt;import("../../configs/accordion-config").NgxPrimerAccordionOrientation \| "Vertical" \| "Horizontal"&gt;


</td><td>

The orientation of the accordion (e.g., horizontal or vertical).


 {<!-- -->string<!-- -->} The accordion's orientation.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ɵcmp](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent._cmp.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

i0.ɵɵComponentDeclaration&lt;[NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt;, "ngx-primer-accordion-root", \["ngxPrimerAccordionRootComponent"\], { "type": { "alias": "ngxPrimerAccordionType"; "required": false; "isSignal": true; }; "collapsible": { "alias": "ngxPrimerAccordionCollapsible"; "required": false; "isSignal": true; }; "value": { "alias": "ngxPrimerAccordionValue"; "required": false; "isSignal": true; }; "defaultValue": { "alias": "ngxPrimerAccordionDefaultValue"; "required": false; "isSignal": true; }; "disabled": { "alias": "ngxPrimerAccordionDisabled"; "required": false; "isSignal": true; }; "orientation": { "alias": "ngxPrimerAccordionOrientation"; "required": false; "isSignal": true; }; }, { "type": "ngxPrimerAccordionTypeChange"; "collapsible": "ngxPrimerAccordionCollapsibleChange"; "value": "ngxPrimerAccordionValueChange"; "defaultValue": "ngxPrimerAccordionDefaultValueChange"; "disabled": "ngxPrimerAccordionDisabledChange"; "orientation": "ngxPrimerAccordionOrientationChange"; }, \["accordionItemsContext"\], \["\*"\], true, \[{ directive: typeof i1.NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective; inputs: { "ngxPrimerIdAttr": "ngxPrimerIdAttr"; }; outputs: {}; }\]&gt;


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ɵfac](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent._fac.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

i0.ɵɵFactoryDeclaration&lt;[NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt;, never&gt;


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[type](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.type.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@angular/core").ModelSignal&lt;import("../../configs/accordion-config").NgxPrimerAccordionType \| "Single" \| "Multiple"&gt;


</td><td>

The accordion type (Single/Multiple). This defines whether the accordion allows single or multiple items to be open at once.


 {<!-- -->string<!-- -->} The accordion type, either 'Single' or 'Multiple'.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[uniqueId](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.uniqueid.md)


</td><td>

`protected`

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

Example of how to use the `idGenerator` to retrieve a unique ID. If the generator is available, it will return a dynamically generated ID. If not, it falls back to a default ID.

  


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[value](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.value.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@angular/core").ModelSignal&lt;T \| T\[\] \| null&gt;


</td><td>

The currently selected value(s) in the accordion. This represents the values of the open accordion item(s).


 {<!-- -->T \| T\[\] \| null<!-- -->} The currently selected value(s) or null if no item is selected.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[collapse(value)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.collapse.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Collapses the specified value(s) in the accordion.

If the value is currently expanded, it will be collapsed. If the value is currently collapsed, it will remain collapsed.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[collapseAll()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.collapseall.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Collapses all accordion items.

Calls `toggleAll` with `false` to close all items. Does nothing if the accordion type is "Single".



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[disable(value)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.disable.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Disables the specified value(s) by updating their disable state.

If the value is currently enabled, it will be disabled. If the value is currently disabled, it will remain disabled.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[enable(value)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.enable.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Enables the specified value(s) by updating their disable state.

If the value is currently disabled, it will be enabled. If the value is currently enabled, it will remain enabled.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[expand(value)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.expand.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Expands the accordion with the given value(s).

If the value is currently collapsed, it will be expanded. If the value is currently expanded, it will remain expanded.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[expandAll()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.expandall.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Expands all accordion items.

Calls `toggleAll` with `true` to open all items. Does nothing if the accordion type is "Single".



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[isOpen(value)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.isopen.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Checks whether the given value is currently open in the accordion.

This method checks the current state of the accordion and determines if the specified value is currently "open" (i.e., selected or expanded). The check behavior differs depending on the accordion type: - For \*\*Multiple\*\* type accordions, it checks if the value is in the list of open values. - For \*\*Single\*\* type accordions, it checks if the given value matches the currently selected value.

\#\#\# Behavior: - \*\*Multiple Type\*\*: If the accordion type is set to "Multiple", the method checks if the value exists in the list of selected/open values. - \*\*Single Type\*\*: If the accordion type is set to "Single", the method checks if the value matches the currently selected value.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[moveFocus(currentIndex, direction)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.movefocus.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Moves the focus to the next or previous accordion item based on the given direction.

This method calculates the next index of the accordion item based on the current index and the direction, ensuring the focus wraps around if the index goes beyond the bounds of the accordion items list. It then sets focus to the calculated item.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[moveFocusToEnd()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.movefocustoend.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Moves the focus to the last accordion item in the list.

This method sets the focus to the last accordion item in the list of accordion items. It ensures that the focus is moved to the final item, regardless of the current focus.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[moveFocusToStart()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.movefocustostart.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Moves the focus to the first accordion item in the list.

This method sets the focus to the first accordion item in the list of accordion items. It ensures that the focus is moved to the first item, regardless of the current focus.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ngOnInit()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.ngoninit.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Angular initialization hook. Runs the initialization function when the component is initialized.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[runInitializationFn(doneFn)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.runinitializationfn.md)


</td><td>

`protected`


</td><td>

Initializes the accordion component, setting up default values and context.

This method sets the default value if provided and assigns the context instance for dependency injection in child components. If a `doneFn` callback is provided, it will be executed after initialization with the current context.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[toggle(value)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.toggle.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Toggles the open/closed state of a given accordion value based on the current state.

This method checks whether the provided value is currently open and toggles it accordingly: - If the accordion is in 'Single' mode and the value is already open, it will close it, unless `collapsible` is false. - For multi-value accordions, it will add the value to the selected list if closed, or remove it if open.

The method updates the `value` property to reflect the new state of the accordion.

\#\#\# Behavior: - \*\*Single Accordion Mode\*\*: - In single-value mode (`type() === 'Single'`<!-- -->), if the value is already open, it will be set to `null` (closed) unless `collapsible` is set to `false`<!-- -->. - If the value is not open, it will be set as the current value. - \*\*Multi Accordion Mode\*\*: - If the accordion allows multiple open values (`type() !== 'Single'`<!-- -->), it will toggle the presence of the value in the list of selected values. - If the value is currently open, it is removed from the list; if it's closed, it is added to the list.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[toggleValue(value, isExpanding)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.togglevalue.md)


</td><td>

`protected`


</td><td>

Toggles the expansion state of the given value(s).

If the value is currently collapsed, it will be expanded. If the value is currently expanded, it will be collapsed.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[toogleAllValue()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.toogleallvalue.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[toogleMultiple(value, isOpenValue)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.tooglemultiple.md)


</td><td>

`protected`


</td><td>

Toggles the state of multiple accordion items. If the item is being opened (`isOpenValue = false`<!-- -->), it adds the value to the list of open items. If the item is being closed (`isOpenValue = true`<!-- -->), it removes the value from the list of open items.

This method is used for managing multiple accordion items where more than one item can be open at a time. It ensures that the internal value is updated with the correct set of open items, either adding or removing the given `value` based on its current state.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[toogleSingle(value, isOpen)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.tooglesingle.md)


</td><td>

`protected`


</td><td>

Toggles the state of a single accordion item. If the accordion is not collapsible and the item is being opened, the action is ignored. Otherwise, it updates the internal value to either `null` (if closing) or the provided `value` (if opening).

This method is used for managing the single accordion item toggle behavior, ensuring that only one item is open at a time when the accordion is not collapsible.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[updateDisableState(value, enable)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.updatedisablestate.md)


</td><td>

`protected`


</td><td>

Updates the disable state of the specified value(s).

If the value is currently disabled, it will be enabled. If the value is currently enabled, it will be disabled.



</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
