<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@ngx-primer/accordion](./accordion.md) &gt; [NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionitemcomponent.md) &gt; [runInitializationFn](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionitemcomponent.runinitializationfn.md)

## NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent.runInitializationFn() method

Runs the initialization logic for the accordion component, setting up default values and context.

This method initializes the accordion component, optionally setting a default value if provided. It also sets the context instance to allow dependency injection in child components, preventing the need for manual prop drilling.

If a `doneFn` callback is provided, it will be executed after the initialization process with the current context and value.

\#\#\# Parameters - `doneFn` (Optional): A callback function that will be executed after initialization. It receives an object with the `context` and `value` properties, where: - `context`<!-- -->: The current instance of the accordion component's root context. - `value`<!-- -->: The current value of the accordion, either the default value or a set value.

\#\#\# Returns This method does not return anything. It performs initialization tasks and optionally invokes the callback.

\#\#\# Example Usage

```typescript
// In the accordion component
this.runInitializationFn((params) => {
  console.log('Accordion initialized with context:', params.context);
  console.log('Initial value:', params.value);
});
```
\#\#\# Description - \*\*Context Setup\*\*: The `accordionRootContext.instance` is set to the current accordion instance, making it accessible for child components through dependency injection. - \*\*Default Value\*\*: If a default value is set for the accordion, it will be applied at initialization. - \*\*Callback Execution\*\*: If the `doneFn` callback is provided, it is executed with the current context and value.

**Signature:**

```typescript
protected runInitializationFn(doneFn?: <P>(args?: P) => void): void;
```

## Parameters

<table><thead><tr><th>

Parameter


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

doneFn


</td><td>

&lt;P&gt;(args?: P) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
**Returns:**

void

