<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@ngx-primer/accordion](./accordion.md) &gt; [NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.md)

## NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent class

Represents the accordion trigger component in the `ngx-primer` accordion library. This component is responsible for handling the user interaction (click, keydown events) with the accordion trigger. It interacts with other accordion components like items and content, and supports dynamic accessibility attributes.


**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent<T> implements OnInit 
```
**Implements:** OnInit

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[accordionContent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.accordioncontent.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@ngx-primer/accordion").NgxPrimerAccordionContentComponent&lt;any&gt; \| undefined


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[accordionItem](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.accordionitem.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

[NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionitemcomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt; \| null


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[accordionItemContext](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.accordionitemcontext.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

[NgxPrimerAccordionItemComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionitemcomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt; \| null


</td><td>

The context for the accordion item, injected optionally from the parent component.

This property holds the context instance for the accordion item, which contains relevant information and methods related to the accordion item. The context is injected optionally, meaning that it may not always be present depending on the component's setup. The context provides access to properties like the state of the accordion item (open/closed), its content, and other relevant configurations specific to the accordion item.

  {<!-- -->NgxPrimerAccordionItemContext \| undefined<!-- -->} The accordion item context instance, or `undefined` if not available.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[accordionRoot](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.accordionroot.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("@ngx-primer/accordion").NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent&lt;any&gt; \| null \| undefined


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[accordionTriggerId](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.accordiontriggerid.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

The unique identifier for the accordion trigger element.

This property assigns the unique ID of the accordion root component to the trigger element. It uses the `uniqueId` getter to fetch the ID, ensuring that the trigger element is correctly associated with its corresponding accordion root in the DOM. This ID is important for accessibility purposes and ensuring unique identification for interactions with the accordion trigger.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataControlsAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.datacontrolsattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string \| undefined


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataExpandedAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.dataexpandedattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean \| undefined


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataFocusAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.datafocusattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataIsOpenAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.dataisopenattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean \| undefined


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dataOrientationAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.dataorientationattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

import("../../configs/accordion-config").NgxPrimerAccordionOrientation \| "Vertical" \| "Horizontal" \| undefined


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[idGenerator](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.idgenerator.md)


</td><td>

`protected`

`readonly`


</td><td>

NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective \| null


</td><td>

The `idGenerator` is a protected property used to inject an instance of `NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective` through Angular's dependency injection system.

This generator is used to provide unique ID values for elements within the component or directive. The property is injected with `host: true` and `optional: true`<!-- -->, meaning it will be fetched from the host element (if available), but the property will be `null` if the directive is not found.

 

   {<!-- -->NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective \| null<!-- -->}


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ɵcmp](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent._cmp.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

i0.ɵɵComponentDeclaration&lt;[NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt;, "ngx-primer-accordion-trigger", never, {}, {}, never, \["\*"\], true, \[{ directive: typeof i1.NgxPrimerIdGeneratorDirective; inputs: { "ngxPrimerIdAttr": "ngxPrimerIdAttr"; }; outputs: {}; }\]&gt;


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ɵfac](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent._fac.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

i0.ɵɵFactoryDeclaration&lt;[NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.md)<!-- -->&lt;any&gt;, never&gt;


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[platformId](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.platformid.md)


</td><td>

`protected`

`readonly`


</td><td>

Object


</td><td>

Injects the PLATFORM\_ID token, which provides information about the current platform (e.g., browser or server). This is used to determine platform-specific behaviors, such as rendering and handling platform-specific logic (e.g., browser-only operations).

The `platformId` is typically used in combination with Angular's `isPlatformBrowser` and `isPlatformServer` utility functions to handle platform-specific behavior at runtime.

 

 {<!-- -->Object<!-- -->}


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[roleAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.roleattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[tabIndexAttr](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.tabindexattr.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

0 \| -1


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[uniqueId](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.uniqueid.md)


</td><td>

`protected`

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

Retrieves the unique identifier for the accordion component.

This getter returns the resolved ID generated by the `idGenerator` directive, or a default value of `'ngx-primer-accordion-trigger'` if the generator is not available. It ensures that each instance of the accordion component has a unique ID for accessibility, DOM interaction, and other purposes requiring a unique reference.

  


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[viewContainerRef](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.viewcontainerref.md)


</td><td>

`protected`

`readonly`


</td><td>

ViewContainerRef


</td><td>

Injects the `ViewContainerRef` service, which provides a reference to the container where views (such as components or templates) are dynamically inserted.

The `viewContainerRef` allows manipulation of views within the component, such as adding or removing dynamic components, managing the view lifecycle, and working with embedded views. It is commonly used in scenarios where you need to programmatically insert or manage content within the DOM.

 

 {<!-- -->ViewContainerRef<!-- -->}


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[focus()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.focus.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ngOnInit()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.ngoninit.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Lifecycle hook that is called after the component has been initialized.

This method is executed when the Angular component is initialized, and it triggers the `runInitializationFn` method to perform any necessary setup or initialization tasks for the accordion trigger component.

The `ngOnInit` lifecycle hook ensures that the initialization logic runs at the appropriate time in the component's lifecycle, after all the component's dependencies have been injected and the component's input properties have been set.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[onKeyDown(event)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.onkeydown.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[runInitializationFn(doneFn)](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.runinitializationfn.md)


</td><td>

`protected`


</td><td>

Runs the initialization logic for the accordion trigger component, optionally executing a callback after initialization.

This method performs setup tasks for the accordion trigger, and if a callback function (`doneFn`<!-- -->) is provided, it is executed after the initialization logic is complete. The callback receives an object containing the `context` of the accordion trigger component.

The method ensures that the initialization process is executed asynchronously using `setTimeout`<!-- -->, allowing for the callback to run after the component's setup has finished.

\#\#\# Parameters - `doneFn` (Optional): A callback function that will be invoked after the initialization is complete. It receives an object with the following properties: - `context`<!-- -->: The context of the accordion trigger component, which can be used in child components for dependency injection.

\#\#\# Returns This method does not return anything. It performs initialization tasks and optionally calls the provided callback.



</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[toogle()](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.toogle.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
