<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@ngx-primer/accordion](./accordion.md) &gt; [NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.md) &gt; [runInitializationFn](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordiontriggercomponent.runinitializationfn.md)

## NgxPrimerAccordionTriggerComponent.runInitializationFn() method

Runs the initialization logic for the accordion trigger component, optionally executing a callback after initialization.

This method performs setup tasks for the accordion trigger, and if a callback function (`doneFn`<!-- -->) is provided, it is executed after the initialization logic is complete. The callback receives an object containing the `context` of the accordion trigger component.

The method ensures that the initialization process is executed asynchronously using `setTimeout`<!-- -->, allowing for the callback to run after the component's setup has finished.

\#\#\# Parameters - `doneFn` (Optional): A callback function that will be invoked after the initialization is complete. It receives an object with the following properties: - `context`<!-- -->: The context of the accordion trigger component, which can be used in child components for dependency injection.

\#\#\# Returns This method does not return anything. It performs initialization tasks and optionally calls the provided callback.


**Signature:**

```typescript
protected runInitializationFn(doneFn?: <P>(args?: P) => void): void;
```

## Parameters

<table><thead><tr><th>

Parameter


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

doneFn


</td><td>

&lt;P&gt;(args?: P) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ An optional callback function to execute after initialization.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
**Returns:**

void

{<!-- -->void<!-- -->} This method does not return anything.

