<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@ngx-primer/accordion](./accordion.md) &gt; [NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.md) &gt; [toggle](./accordion.ngxprimeraccordionrootcomponent.toggle.md)

## NgxPrimerAccordionRootComponent.toggle() method

Toggles the open/closed state of a given accordion value based on the current state.

This method checks whether the provided value is currently open and toggles it accordingly: - If the accordion is in 'Single' mode and the value is already open, it will close it, unless `collapsible` is false. - For multi-value accordions, it will add the value to the selected list if closed, or remove it if open.

The method updates the `value` property to reflect the new state of the accordion.

\#\#\# Behavior: - \*\*Single Accordion Mode\*\*: - In single-value mode (`type() === 'Single'`<!-- -->), if the value is already open, it will be set to `null` (closed) unless `collapsible` is set to `false`<!-- -->. - If the value is not open, it will be set as the current value. - \*\*Multi Accordion Mode\*\*: - If the accordion allows multiple open values (`type() !== 'Single'`<!-- -->), it will toggle the presence of the value in the list of selected values. - If the value is currently open, it is removed from the list; if it's closed, it is added to the list.


**Signature:**

```typescript
toggle(value: T): void;
```

## Parameters

<table><thead><tr><th>

Parameter


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

value


</td><td>

T


</td><td>

The value to check. This can be any type defined for the accordion values (e.g., string, number, etc.).


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
**Returns:**

void

{<!-- -->void<!-- -->}

